DBZ-78 add blog post about Kafka Connect 2.6+ `create topics` feature (#490)
debezium/debezium.github.io: blog/2020-09-14-debezium-auto-create-topics.adoc

> = Debezium Auto Create Topics

Author: ```suggestion
= Auto-creating Debezium Change Data Topics
```

> = Debezium Auto Create Topics

Author: Done

rkerner

> :awestruct-tags: [ kafka, topics, production, news ]

Author: what do you think about tags @gunnarmorling ?

Reviewer: LGTM. Might also add "discussion" which we used for these kinds of more generic posts.

Author: done

:awestruct-layout: blog-post

> When you are working with Kafka Connect then you might have realized that once you start Kafka Connect

Author: yep

> When you are working with Kafka Connect then you might have realized that once you start Kafka Connect

Author: Done

there are already some internal Kafka Connect topics created for you:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
$ kafka-topics.sh --bootstrap-server $HOSTNAME:9092 --list

__consumer_offsets
connect_configs
connect_offsets
connect_statuses
----

This is done automatically for you by Kafka Connect with a sane, customized default topic configuration
that fits the needs of these internal topics.

When you start a Debezium connector the topics for the captured events are created by the Kafka
broker based on a default, maybe customized, configuration in the broker if
`auto.create.topics.enable = true` is enabled in the broker config:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
auto.create.topics.enable = false

> default.replication.factor = 1

Author: I matched it with the demo in the example repo which is single broker. rf > 1 will fail. and partition count > 10 is from my experiences irrelevant. we did 10 at trivago and the 3 bare-metal brokers were idle-ing most of the time even at that scale. I can increase to rf > 1 but that means increasing broker count which can make the example fail more often.

> default.replication.factor = 1

Author: the config here are the Kafka broker defaults. I'll apply the changes to the other examples in the blog post.

num.partitions = 1
compression.type = producer
log.cleanup.policy = delete
log.retention.ms = 604800000  ## 7 days
----

> But often, when you use Debezium and Kafka in a production environment you might often choose to disable

Author: (you don't know that I had triple often here before :laughing:) I think the sentence once started with "But often often, ..."

> But often, when you use Debezium and Kafka in a production environment you might often choose to disable

Reviewer: LOL

Kafka's topic auto creation capability with `auto.create.topics.enable = false`, or you want the
connector topics to be configured differently from the default. In this case you have to create
topics for Debezium's captured data sources upfront.{empty} +

> But there's good news! Since Kafka Connect version 2.6.0 and above this can be now automated since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But there's good news! Beginning with Kafka Connect version 2.6.0, this can be automated since
```

https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/KIP-158%3A+Kafka+Connect+should+allow+source+connectors+to+set+topic-specific+settings+for+new+topics[KIP-158]
is implemented to enable customizable topic creation with Kafka Connect.

== Kafka Connect

Kafka Connect since Kafka 2.6.0 comes with topic creation enabled:

[source,options="nowrap",shell]
----
topic.creation.enable = true
----

If you don't want to allow automatic topic creation by connectors you can set this value to `false`
in the Kafka Connect config (_connect-distributed.properties_ file or via environment variable

> _CONNECT_TOPIC_CREATION_ENABLE_).

Reviewer: "when using Debezium's container image for Kafka Connect [link to DockerHub]"

Author: will do

Author: Done

> == Update Connector Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Updating Connector Configuration
```

Kafka Connect topic creation works with groups. There's always a `default` group which is used when
there's no other group defined that matches the topic.

Every group can specify a collection of topic configuration properties, and a regular expression list
of topic names that config should apply to.

You can specify all https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#topicconfigs[*topic level configuration parameters*]
to customize how the matched topics of the group will be created.

Let's see how we can extend this Postgres config for the Kafka Connect topic creation:

[source,options="nowrap",json]
----
{
    "name": "inventory-connector",
    "config": {
        "connector.class": "io.debezium.connector.postgresql.PostgresConnector",
        "tasks.max": "1",
        "database.hostname": "postgres",
        "database.port": "5432",
        "database.user": "postgres",
        "database.password": "postgres",
        "database.dbname" : "postgres",
        "database.server.name": "dbserver1",
        "schema.whitelist": "inventory"
    }
}
----

=== Default Config

All topics not matching other `topic.creation` groups will apply the `default` group
config.{empty} +

> As default we want `replication.factor = 1`, `partitions = 5`, the topic should be key

Reviewer: Se above, repl factor 3?

Author: yes, same here. stay with the example repo code or diverge in the blog post?

Reviewer: Diverging from the example is fine, if it makes for a more realistic snippet in the post.

Author: Like said above, I will keep the absolute default values above and update these examples here.
